"What would be the most obvious threat to Manhattan?"

"More Indians, I'd think," Harry Gant said. "Asking for another twenty-four
dollars."
	--Matt Ruff, "Sewer, Gas, and Electric"
%
"You want to go back to your miserable little lives? Fine. That's what you want,
that's what you get. You're not the only three women in the world, you know."
	--Jack Nicholson, 'The Witches of Eastwick'
%
	The bells of hell
	Go ting-aling-aling
	For you but not for me.
	Oh death, where is thy
	sting-aling-aling
	And grave, thy victory?
		--Brendan Brehan
%
Run Away! Run Away! The beast of the Apocalypse is coming!

actually, hang on for a bit... so is the whore of Babylon.
        --grugq
%
"You do know you could find yourself charged with being a dominant species while under the influence of impulse-driven consumerism, don't you?"
	-- "Good Omens", Pratchett & Gaiman
%
Gentlemen! You can't fight in here, this is the WAR ROOM!
	-- Dr Strangelove
%
Fingers down the throat of love...
	-- the birthday party
%
	I'm guided by a signal in the heavens 
	I'm guided by this birthmark on my skin 
	I'm guided by the beauty of our weapons 
	First we take Manhattan, then we take Berlin 
		--Leonard Cohen
%
       And I thank you for those items that you sent me 
       The monkey and the plywood violin 
       I practiced every night, now I'm ready 
       First we take Manhattan, then we take Berlin 
		--Leonard Cohen
%
       Now you can say that I've grown bitter but of this you may be sure 
       The rich have got their channels in the bedrooms of the poor 
       And there's a mighty judgement coming, but I may be wrong 
       You see, you hear these funny voices 
       In the Tower of Song 
		--Leonard Cohen
%
          Love is for fools and all fools are lovers
          It's raining on my house and none of the others
          Love is for fools and God knows I'm still one
          The sidewalks are filled with love's lonely children
          The sidewalk regrets that we had to kill them.
		-- the birthday party
%
          Ah wassa born...
          And Lord shakin, even then was dumpt into some icy font,
          like some great stinky unclean!
          From slum-church to slum-church, ah spilt mah heart
          To some fat cunt behind a screen...

          Evil poppin eye presst up to the opening
          He'd slide shut the lil perforated hatch...at night mah body blusht
          To the whistle of the birch
          With a lil practice ah soon learnt to use in on mahself
          Punishment?! Reward!! Punishment?! Reward!!
          Well, ah tied on...percht on mah bed ah was...  
          sticken a needle in mah arm...
          Ah tied off! Fucken wings burst out mah back
          (Like ah was cuttin teeth!!)
          Ah took off!!!
          (Rats in Paradise! Rats in Paradise!)
          There's a mutiny in Heaven!
		-- the birthday party
%
                                                                          fnord
%
       Everybody knows that the dice are loaded 
       Everybody rolls with their fingers crossed 
       Everybody knows that the war is over 
       Everybody knows the good guys lost 
       Everybody knows the fight was fixed 
       The poor stay poor, the rich get rich 
       That's how it goes 
       Everybody knows 
		--Leonard Cohen
%
       Everybody knows that you love me baby 
       Everybody knows that you really do 
       Everybody knows that you've been faithful 
       Ah, give or take a night or two 
       Everybody knows you've been discreet 
       But there were so many people you just had to meet 
       Without your clothes 
       And everybody knows 
		--Leonard Cohen
%
          I am the King, I am the kind
          One dead marine through the hatch
          scratch and scrape this heavenly body
          every inch of winning skin
          there's garbage in honeys sack again
          honey honey honey honey
          come on and kiss me
          Honey honey honey
          honey's child is taken over this place
          two dead marines standing in line
          drink to me! this heavenly body
          every inch a winning thing
          honey honey honey
          hack hack hack hack this heavenly body
          yack yack yack yack yack goes junk-face
          scratch scape scratch this winning skin
		-- the birthday party
%
If organized religion is the opium of the masses, then disorganized religion is the marijuana of the lunatic fringe. 
	--Kerry Thornley
%
Then there are bigots, who will persecute you because they hate Eris Discordia,
and have no better sense than to judge an entire religion by the behavior of a 
single deity.
	--Kerry Thornley
%
Before I was a Discordian, I wasted a lot of time arguing with evangelists about
God and Jesus. Now they waste a lot of time arguing about Eris Discordia with 
me.
	--Kerry Thornley
%
Before I was a Discordian, I was distressed by the inefficiency and inhumanity 
of organizations. Now I am vindicated by their inefficiency and inhumanity.
	--Kerry Thornley
%
Before I was a Discordian, I used to be afraid of my own shadow. Ah, but now my
shadow is afraid of me!
	--Kerry Thornley
%
                      +-------------------+
                      |    LICK HERE!!!   |
                      |                   |
                      |         *         |
                      |                   |
                      | (You may be one   |
                      |  of the lucky 25) |
                      +-------------------+
%
Everybody understands Mickey Mouse. Few understand Herman Hesse. Only a handfull
understood Albert Einstein. And nobody understood Emperor Norton. 
		(Slogan of NORTON CABAL - S.F.) 
%
          Norton I., Dei Gratia, Emporer of the United States
          and Protector of Mexico, being desirous of allaying
          the dissensions of party strife now existing within
          our realm, do hereby dissolve and abolish the Demo-
          cratic and Republican parties, and also do hereby
          decree disfranchisement and imprisonment, for not
          more than ten nor less that five years, to all 
          persons leading to any violation of this imperial
          decree.
                                                    Norton I.
          Given at San Francisco, Cal., this 12th day of
          Augist, A.D. 1869
	                --San Francisco Herald, 8/13/1869
%
          At the peremptory request of a large majority of 
          the citizens of these United States, I, Joshua 
          Norton, formerly of Algoa Bay, Cape of Good Hope, 
          and now for the past nine years and ten months of 
          San Francisco, California, declare and proclaim 
          myself Emperor of these U. S., and in virtue of the 
          authority thereby in me vested, do hereby order 
          and direct the representatives of the different 
          States of the Union to assemble in the Musical 
          Hall of this city on the 1st day of February next, 
          then and there to make such alterations in the 
          existing laws of the Union as may ameliorate the 
          evils under which the country is laboring, and 
          thereby cause confidence to exist, both at home 
          and abroad, in our stability and integrity.

          NORTON I,
          Emperor of the United States
	                --San Francisco Evening Bulletin, 9/17/59
%
The Public Officials having again notoriously betrayed the confidence and trust
imposed in them by a trusting people; and having shamefully disregarded the 
public interest and the people's welfare to feather their own nests; now, 
therefore, We, Norton I, Emperor of America and Protector of Mexico, do hereby 
order all such Officials to resign forthwith, and do declare their said offices
vacant from the date hereof.
		--Norton I., 1872
%
We, Norton I, do hereby decree that the offices of President, Vice President, 
and Speaker of the House of Representatives are, from and after this date, 
abolished.

We further decree that the Senate of the United States elect a prominent 
Democrat as their presiding officer, to act as President until the next 
election, and to reconstruct the Cabinet according to our wishes hereafter to 
be declared.

Done at our palace this 21st day of December, A.D. 1862.
		--Norton I., 12/21/1862
%
WHEREAS, it is necessary for our Peace, Prosperity and Happiness, as also to the
National Advancement of the people of the United States, that they should 
dissolve the Republican form of government and establish in its stead an 
Absolute Monarchy;

NOW, THEREFORE, WE, Norton I, by the Grace of God Emperor of the Thirty-three 
states and the multitude of Territories of the United States of America, do 
hereby dissolve the Republic of the United States, and it is hereby dissolved;

And all laws made from and after this date, either by the National Congress or 
any State Legislature, shall be null and of no effect.All Governors, and all 
other persons in authority, shall maintain order by enforcing the heretofore 
existing laws and regulations until the necessary alterations can be effected.

Given under our hand and seal, at Headquarters, San Francisco, this 26th day of July, 1860.
%
WHEREAS, a body of men calling themselves the National Congress are now in 
session in Washington City, in violation of our Imperial edict of the 12th of 
October last, declaring the said Congress abolished; WHEREAS, it is necessary 
for the repose of our Empire that the said decree should be strictly complied 
with;
NOW, THEREFORE, we do hereby Order and Direct Major-General Scott, the Command-
in-Chief of our Armies, immediately upon receipt of this, our Decree, to proceed
with a suitable force and clear the Halls of Congress.
		--San Francisco Evening Bulletin, January 1860
%
His Imperial Majesty, Norton I, has issued the following edict, which he desires
the Bulletin to spread before the world.  Let her rip!

It is represented to us that the universal suffrage, as now existing through the
Union, is abused; that fraud and corruption prevent a fair and proper expression
of the public voice; that open violation of the laws are constantly occurring, 
caused by mobs, parties, factions and undue influence of political sects; that 
the citizen has not that protection of person and property which he is entitled
to by paying his pro rata of the expense of Government--in consequence of which,
WE do hereby abolish Congress, and it is therefore abolished; and WE order and 
desire the representatives of all parties interested to appear at the Musical 
Hall of this city on the first of February next, and then and there take the 
most effective steps to remedy the evil complained of.
	--San Francisco Evening Bulletin, 10/12/1859
%
When the US Congress failed to obey His Majesty's Royal Order to assemble in the
San Francisco Opera House, Norton fired every last member of that rebellious
organization.  Thus, the people of San Francisco knew better than to incur
His Imperial wrath.  His Royal Decrees were printed free of charge in the
newspapers, the currency He printed was accepted in the saloons, local 
shopkeepers paid the modest taxes He occasionally demanded and on at least one
occasion a tailor furnished Him with a new set of Royal finery.

Although a madman, Norton wrote letters to Abraham Lincoln and Queen Victoria
which they took seriously.
	--Principia Discordia
%
One night a gang of vigilantes gathered for a pogrom against San Francisco's
Chinatown.  All that stood in their way was the solitary figure of Norton.  A
sane man would not have been there in the first place.  A rational man would
have tried to reason with them.  A moralist would have scolded them.  A man as
daft as Norton usually seemed would have loudly ordered them to cease and
desist in the name of His Royal Imperial authority.  All such tacks would
probably have been futile, and Norton resorted to none of them.
He simply bowed His head in silent prayer.

The vigilantes dispersed.
	--Principia Discordia
%
"Never trust a god who grins all the time and wears a top hat."
	--Terry Pratchett, "Reaper Man"
%
"Leave me alone, milkman scum!"
   -- Judy, "Shakes the Clown"
%
"He drinks so much to forget he's a fucking alcoholic!"

"Jesus, Mary and Joseph hanging off the cross for Christ's sake goddamnit shit."
   -- Lucy, "Shakes the Clown"
%
 "You didn't see nothing, alright? You saw five happy, jolly clowns sitting 
  around eating a big plate of beef. White, powdery BEEF!"
   -- Binky, "Shakes the Clown"
%
 "How am I going to do it? I'm going to avoid lying, while not telling the 
  truth."
   -- grugq, on how not to get fired
%
 "The biggest problem with programming is that you can do anything."
 	-- P. J. Plauger, "Programming On Purpose"
%
