Nasrudin received a parrot for his birthday. This parrot was fully grown with 
a bad attitude and worse vocabulary. Every other word was an expletive. Those 
that weren't expletives were, to say the least rude. 

Nasrudin tried hard to change the bird's attitude and was constantly saying polite words, playing soft music, anything he could think of to try and set a good example... Nothing worked. He yelled at the bird and the bird got worse. He shook the bird and the bird got more angry and more rude. Finally, in a moment of desperation, Nasrudin put the parrot in the freezer. For a few moments he heard the bird squawking, kicking, and screaming - then suddenly there was quiet. 

Nasrudin was frightened that he might have hurt the bird and quickly opened the freezer door. The parrot calmly stepped out onto Nasrudin's extended arm and said: "I'm sorry that I might have offended you with my language and action and I ask your forgiveness. I will endeavor to correct my behavior." Nasrudin was astonished at the bird's change in attitude and was about to ask what had made such a dramatic change when the parrot continued: "May I ask what the chicken did?"
%
Nasrudin wants a job as a signalman on the railways. 
He is told to meet the inspector at the signal box. The inspector puts 
this question to him: "What would you do if you realised that two trains 
were heading for each other on the same track?" Nasrudin says, "I 
would switch the points for one of the trains." "What if the lever 
broke?" asked the inspector. "Then I'd dash down out of the signal 
box," said Nasrudin, "and I'd use the manual lever over there." "What 
if that had been struck by lightning?" "Then," Nasrudin continues, 
"I'd run back into the signal box and phone the next signal 
box." "What if the phone was engaged?" "Well in that case," 
persevered Nasrudin, "I'd rush down out of the box and use the public 
emergency phone at the level crossing up there." "What if that was 
vandalized?" "Oh well then I'd run into the village and get my 
uncle." This puzzles the inspector, so he asks, "Why would you do 
that?" Came the answer, "Because he's never seen a train 
crash."
%
Nasrudin was accused by a narrow Mullah of using parts of 
the clerics sermons. "That is OK," said Nasrudin, "You did not know 
what you were saying. The importance of your words is based on 
understanding. I therefore give you permission to understand what I have 
said but whether you will say it . . . that is another story . . ."
%
The Mulla approached the very beautiful woman at the market and said, "You 
know I've lost my wife here in the market. Can you talk to me for a 
couple of minutes?" "Why?" asked the woman. "Because every time I 
talk to a beautiful woman," explained the Mulla, my wife appears out of 
nowhere."
%
"Nasrudin why is it people laugh at you?" "Well," said 
Nasrudin, "Think of me as a turban. The nature of laughter exposes the 
false. If people laughed at themselves they would feel naked. Therefore 
I provide them with a 'head covering'." "But Nasrudin, they are still 
naked!" "Shhhhh," said Nasrudin smiling . . . 
%
Mulla Nasrudin was asked to give a talk about time 
management and how to fit spiritual practise into a busy life 
schedule. The Mulla began by pulling out a one-gallon, wide-mouthed 
mason jar. He placed the jar on a table in front of him. Then Mulla 
produced about a dozen fist-sized rocks and carefully placed them, one 
at a time, into the jar. As usual, people began to whisper and wonder 
why the Mulla was doing something strange, as they'd come to expect of 
him, instead of giving a talk like normal religious teachers did. When 
the jar was filled to the top and no more rocks would fit inside, the 
Mulla asked, "Oh people, is this jar full?" The crowd in unison 
said, "Yes, Mulla." "Really?" snarled Nasrudin.  He reached under 
the table and pulled out a bucket of gravel. Then he dumped some gravel 
in and shook the jar, causing pieces of gravel to work themselves down 
into the spaces between the big rocks. The Mulla then asked the group 
once more, "Oh people, is the jar full now?" By this time the class 
was onto him. "Probably not," one answered. "Good!" replied the 
Mulla.  He reached under the table and brought out a bucket of sand. 
He started dumping the sand in and it went into all the spaces left 
between the rocks and gravel. Once more he asked the question,  "Is 
it full now?" "No!" the crowd shouted in unison. Once again the 
Mulla said, "Good!" Then he grabbed a pitcher of water and began to 
pour it in until the jar was filled to the brim. Then he looked up at 
the class and asked, "Now tell me, oh people, what is the point of 
this illustration?" One eager beaver raised his hand and said, "the 
point is that all things, even though they seem full, are inherently 
empty of self." "No!" snarled Nasrudin. "This is a Nasrudin story, 
not a Zen story, you silly Buddhist. Anyone else want to 
try?" Another eager beaver raised her hand and suggested, "is the 
point that no matter how full your schedule is, if you try really hard, 
you can always fit some more stuff into it?" "No," the Mulla replied. 
"That's not the point either. The truth this illustration teaches us is 
that if we don't get our values straight and attend to the biggest 
things of value to us in life first, we'll never fit them in at 
all!"
%
Nasrudin is with his cronies drinking coffee: they 
are discussing death,  "When you are in your casket and friends and 
family are mourning upon you, what would you like to hear them say about 
you?" The first crony says, "I would like to hear them say that I was 
a great doctor of my time, and a great family man." The second says, 
" I would like to hear that I was a wonderful husband and school teacher 
which made a huge difference in our children of tomorrow." Nasrudin 
says, " I would like to hear them say... LOOK!! HE'S 
MOVING!!!"
%
Nasrudin was invited to give a sermon. When the 
people had assembled, Nasrudin asked: "Do you know what I'm going to 
tell you?" "No", they answered. "In that case", said Nasrudin, 
"there's no point in telling you anything. You're too ignorant to start 
with. I'd be wasting my time." The people were disappointed. They 
asked Nasrudin to come back the following week. When he did, he 
started his sermon by asking the same question. "Yes!", they 
shouted. "Very well", said Nasrudin, "then I see no reason to 
speak." And he left. But Nasrudin was persuaded to come back a 
third time. "Do you know -or don't you?", he asked the 
people. "Some of us do, and some of us don't." "Great!", said 
Nasrudin. "Those who know can share their knowledge with those who 
don't." Having said that, he went home.
%
Nasrudin decided that he could benefit by learning something new. He went 
to see a master musician.  'How much do you charge to teach lute-playing?'   

'Three silver pieces for the first month; after that, one silver piece 
a month.'   

'Excellent!' said Nasrudin. 'I shall begin with the second month.'
%
Nasrudin entered the teahouse and declaimed:   
'The Moon is more useful than the Sun.' 
'Why, Mullah?'   
'We need the light more during the night than during the day.'
%
Nasrudin was walking past a well, when he had the impulse to 
look into it. It was night, and as he peered into the deep water, he saw the 
Moon's reflection there.   

'I must save the Moon!' the Mulla thought. 'Otherwise she will never wane, and the fasting month of Ramadan will never come to an end.'   

He found a rope, threw it in and called down: 'Hold tight; keep bright; succor is at hand!'   

The rope caught in a rock inside the well, and Nasrudin heaved as hard as he could.  Straining back, he suddenly felt the rope give as it came loose, and he was thrown on his back. As he lay there, panting, he saw the Moon riding in the sky above.  

'Glad to be of service,' said Nasrudin. 'Just as well I came along, wasn't it?'
%
I can see in the dark,' boasted Nasrudin one day in the teahouse.   

'If that is so, why do we sometimes see you carrying a light through the streets?'   

'Only to prevent other people from colliding with me.'
%
Nasrudin went to a Turkish bath. As he was poorly dressed the 
attendants treated him in a casual manner, game him only a scrap of soap and an 
old towel.   When he left, Nasrudin gave 
the two men a gold coin each. He had not complained, and they could not 
understand it. Could it be, they wondered that if he had been better treated he 
would have given an even larger tip?   
The following week Nasrudin appeared again. This time, of course, he 
was looked after like a king. After being massaged, perfumed and treated with 
the utmost deference, he left the bath, handing each attendant the smallest 
possible copper coin.   'This, said 
Nasrudin,, 'is for last time. The gold coins were for this week.
%
'How old are you, Nasrudin?'   
'Forty.'   
'But you said the same last time I asked you, two years ago!'   
'Yes, I always stand by what I have said.'
%
'Daily', said Nasrudin to his wife, 'I become more amazed at the manner in which nature is organized; and the way in which everything upon this earth is in some way planned for the benefit of mankind.'   
She asked for an example.   
'Well, for instance, you note that camels have no wings, by the mercy of Providence.'   
'How does that help us?'   
'Don't you see? If they had wings they might roost on housetops, and destroy the roofs, to say nothing of the noise and the nuisance of their chewing 
and spitting their cud.'
%
Nasrudin went into a shop to buy a pair of trousers.  Then he changed his mind and chose a cloak instead, at the same price.   Picking up the cloak he left the shop.   

'You have not paid,' shouted the merchant.   

'I left you the trousers, which were of the same value as the cloak.' 

'But you did not pay for the trousers either.'   

'Of course not, ' said Nasrudin - 'why should I pay for something that I did not want to buy?'
%
Nasrudin climbed into someone's kitchen garden and started 
filling a sack with everything that he could lay his hands on.   

A gardener saw him and came running. 
'What are you doing here?'   
'I was blown here by a high wind.'   
'And who uprooted the vegetables?'   
'I caught hold of them to stop myself being swept along.'   
'And how does it come that there are vegetables in that sack?'   
'That is just what I was wondering about when you interrupted me.'
%
Nasrudin went to the shop of a man who stocked all kinds of bits 
and pieces.   
'Have you got nails?' he asked.   
'Yes.'   
'And leather, good leather?'   
'Yes.'   
'And twine?'   
'Yes.'   
'And dye?'   
'Yes.'   
'Then why, for Heaven's sake, don't you make a pair of boots?'
%
Hearing that a man wanted to learn the Kurdish language, 
Nasrudin offered to teach him. Nasrudin's own knowledge of Kurdish was limited 
to a few words.   'We shall start with 
the word for "Hot Soup", 'said Nasrudin.   
'In Kurdish, this is Aash.'   
'I don't quite understand, Nasrudin. How would you say "Cold 
Soup"?'   'You never say "Cold Soup". 
The Kurds like their soup hot.'
%
Nasrudin's donkey was lost. Everyone helped him to search the neighborhood.   
Someone said: 'You don't seem at all worried. You realize, do you not, that your donkey may never be found?'   
Nasrudin said: 'You see that hill there? Nobody has looked there yet. If they don't find it there, then I'll start worrying.'
%
Nasrudin called at a castle to collect for charity. 
'tell your master', he said to doorkeeper, 
'that Mullah Nasrudin is here and asks for money.'   
The man went into the building, then came out 
again.   'I am afraid that my master is 
out, 'he said.   'Let me give you a 
message for him, then,' said Nasrudin.   
'Even though he has not contributed he can have this advice, free. 
Next time he goes out he should not leave his face at the window. Someone might 
steal it.
%
Carrying home a load of delicate glassware, Nasrudin dropped it 
in the street. Everything was smashed.   
A crowd gathered.   
'What's the matter with you, idiots?' howled Nasrudin.   
'Haven't you ever seen a fool before?'
%
Nasrudin had saved up to buy a new shirt. He went to a tailor's 
shop, full of excitement. The tailor measured him and said: 'Come back in a 
week, and if God wills - your shirt will be ready.'   
Nasrudin contained himself for a week and then went 
back to the shop.   'There has been a 
delay. But - if God wills - your shirt will be ready tomorrow.'   
The following day Nasrudin returned. 'I am sorry,' said 
the tailor, 'but it not quite finished. Try tomorrow, and - if God wills - it 
will be ready.'   'How long will it 
take', asked the exasperated Nasrudin, 'if you leave God out of it?'
%
Nasrudin nearly fell into a pool. A man whom he knew slightly 
was near and saved him. Every time he met Nasrudin after that he would remind 
him of the service which he had performed.   
When this had happened several times Nasrudin took him to the water, 
jumped in, stood with his head just above water and shouted: 'Now I am as wet as I would have been if you had not saved me! Leave me alone.'
%
Nasrudin was riding along one day when his donkey took fright at 
something in its path and started to bolt.   
As he sped past them at an unaccustomed pace some countrymen called 
out: 
'Where are you going, O Nasrudin, 
so fast?'   
'Don't ask me,' shouted Nasrudin, 'ask my donkey!'
%
Sitting near some stepping-stones across a river, Nasrudin saw 
that ten blind men wanted to cross the stream. He offered to help them over for 
a penny each.   They accepted and he 
started to take them across.   Nine were 
safely delivered to the further bank. But, as he was making his way with the 
tenth, the unfortunate man tripped and was carried away by the flood. 
  Sensing something amiss the nine survivors 
began calling out: 'What happened, Nasrudin?'   
'A penny less to pay, 'said Nasrudin.
%
Seeing something glittering in the gutter, Nasrudin ran to pick 
it up. It was a metal mirror.   Looking 
at it closely, he saw his face reflected in it.   
'No wonder it was thrown away - nothing as ugly as this could 
possibly appeal to anyone. The fault is in me, for I picked it up without 
reasoning that it must be something unpleasant.'
%
'What is the meaning of fate, Mulla?'   
'Assumptions.'   
'In what way?'   
'You assume things are going to go well, and they don't - that you call bad luck. You assume things are going to go badly and they don't - that you call good luck. You assume that certain things are going to happen or not happen - and you so lack intuition that you don't know what is going to happen. You assume that the future is unknown.   'What you are caught at - you call that Fate.'
%
The Mullah went to a rich man.   
'Give me some money.'   
'Why?'   
'I want to buy ...  an elephant.'   
'If you have no money, you can't afford to keep an elephant.'   
'I came here', said Nasrudin, 'to get money, not advice.'
%
A neighbour came to Nasrudin, asking to borrow his donkey. 
"It is out on loan," the teacher replied. 
At that moment, the donkey brayed loudly inside the stable. 
"But I can hear it bray, over there." 
"Whom do you believe," asked Nasrudin, "me or a donkey?"
%
Nasrudin called at a large house to collect for charity. The 
servant said "My master is out." Nasrudin replied, "Tell your master that next 
time he goes out, he should not leave his face at the window. Someone might 
steal it."
%
Nasrudin returned to his village from the imperial capital, 
and the villagers gathered around to hear what had passed. "At this time," said 
Nasrudin, "I only want to say that the King spoke to me." All the villagers but 
the stupidest ran off to spread the wonderful news. The remaining villager 
asked, "What did the King say to you?" "What he said -- and quite distinctly, 
for everyone to hear -- was 'Get out of my way!'" The simpleton was overjoyed; 
he had heard words actually spoken by the King, and seen the very man they were 
spoken to.
%
Nasrudin walked into a shop one day, and the owner came forward to serve him. 
Nasrudin said, "First things first. Did you see me walk into your shop?" 
"Of course." 
"Have you ever seen me before?" 
"Never." 
"Then how do you know it was me?"
%
Nasrudin was carrying home a piece of liver and the recipe 
for liver pie. Suddenly a bird of prey swooped down and snatched the piece of 
meat from his hand. As the bird flew off, Nasrudin called after it, "Foolish 
bird! You have the liver, but what can you do with it without the recipe?"
%
One day the King decided that he would force all his 
subjects to tell the truth. A gallows was erected in front of the city gates. A 
herald announced, "Whoever would enter the city must first answer the truth to a 
question which will be put to him." Nasrudin was first in line. The captain of 
the guard asked him, "Where are you going? Tell the truth -- the alternative is 
death by hanging." "I am going," said Nasrudin, "to be hanged on that gallows." 
"I don't believe you." "Very well, if I have told a lie, then hang me!" "But 
that would make it the truth!" "Exactly," said Nasrudin, "your truth."
%
"There is nothing which cannot be answered by means of my 
doctrine," said a monk, coming into the teahouse where Nasrudin sat. "And yet 
just a short time ago, I was challenged by a scholar with an unanswerable 
question," said Nasrudin. "I could have answered it if I had been there." "Very 
well. He asked, 'Why are you breaking into my house in the middle of the 
night?'"
%
Two men came before Nasrudin when he was magistrate. The first man said, "This man has bitten my ear -- I demand compensation." The second man said, "He bit it himself." Nasrudin withdrew to his chambers, and spent an hour trying to bite his own ear. He succeeded only in falling over and bruising his forehead. Returning to the courtroom, Nasrudin pronounced, "Examine the man whose ear was bitten. If his forehead is bruised, he did it himself and the case is dismissed. If his forehead is not bruised, the other man did it and must pay three silver pieces."
%
The Mulah was beating a drum as hard as he could. The neighbors were fed up at the racket and asked him what he was doing. He replied, "Keeping wild tigers at bay." A neighbor shouted, "But Mullah, there are no wild tigers within a thousand miles of here." The Mullah smiled and replied, "It works, doesn't it!"
%
One day the Mullah had climbed a neighbor's apple tree to steal some fruits. His neighbor walked in the orchard and the Mullah fell as he tried to hide in the tree. The people crowded around the dazed Mullah and imagined that he had died. They started to carry him home. As they carried him, they got to a roundabout and did not know which road to take. The Mullah who had just revived pointed to a road and said, "When I was alive, I would take that road!" 
% 
A farmer came to town as a guest of the Mullah. The farmer brought a goose as a gift for the Mullah. That night Mullah Nasrudin's wife cooked the goose and served it in a feast with many other delicacies to the Mullah and others with 
the farmer siting in the place of honor among the guests. 

The farmer returned home the next day and a week later a stranger knocked 
on the Mullah's door saying, "I am the friend of the guy who brought you the 
goose." The Mullah welcomed him and asked his wife to cook a big meal and 
invited the stranger to dinner. Hardly a week had gone by when another stranger 
came claiming to be the friend of the friend of the guy who had brought the 
goose. Once again the stranger was fed a big meal and so was the next stranger 
who was the friend of the friend of the friend of the guy who had brought the 
goose. 

By this time the Mullah and his wife had become pretty fed up of feeding 
all the countryside. Nasrudin's wife told him that they had only one chicken 
left. Mullah said not to worry since he had a plan.

When the next friend of the friend of the friend of the friend of the guy who had brought the goose arrived the Mullah told his wife to boil some water and serve it in a soup bowl. The guest tasted the water and asked what kind of a soup was this. The Mullah replied, "Sir you have before you the soup of the soup of the soup of the soup of the goose that the friend of your friend of your friend of your friend brought." 
%
An excellent architect lovingly built many beautiful palaces for the Sultan. Eventually he was tired of his labor and went to the Potentate and asked if he could retire. The great king asked the architect to build him one last palace. He said, "Money is absolutely no objection. You have one year to build me the best palace possible."

The architect started eagerly but he was exhausted and soon he started to do shoddy work. He cut a corner here and a corner there. After all, this was his last project and no one would notice. When it came to the materials he used cheaper materials since he could not be bothered to search for the best. After all, who would notice? Only he, was the one who could tell the difference. One by one the architect did less than his best. Eventually even though no one else could tell the difference the architect knew that this palace was no where near his best. However, he was still pleased that it was complete and at last he could retire.

The year had passed and the architect presented his substandard work to the Sultan. The Sultan inspected the palace and was well pleased. When the inspection was over, he turned to the architect and said, "You have done well.  This is my retirement gift to you."
%
The Mullah was using a rusted axe to cut a huge oak tree. A friend was 
passing by and saw that the Mullah was make no progress at all. At this rate it 
would take him years to chop the mighty tree down. He said, "Mullah, why don't 
you sharpen your axe?" The Mullah replied, "I can't afford the time. Must cut 
this tree by tomorrow."
%
The Shahanshah, the King of Kings, had passed away unexpectedly before he 
could bequeath his empire to one of his many suns. In order to stop a civil war 
the Viziers asked the Mullah to intervene and discover the Great ruler's desire. 
The Mullah fasted and meditated for many days and then went into a deep trance. 
His spirit momentarily left his body and went to the other world. When he saw 
the Supreme Sovereign, he was in the most beautiful palace imaginable. He was 
surrounded by stunning Houris and most powerful Genies of all kinds. Verily, 
this was a true paradise. The Shahanshah told the Mullah which of his sons 
should succeed him and the added, "I would give up all this wealth and glory I 
have in this world to spend one more day back on Earth, alive, as even the 
humblest servant to the least of my subjects." 
%
Hassan was a novice in Baghdad. He went to a Sufi Sheik to have his 
fortune read. The Sheik told him that he was under grave danger and death might 
visit him soon. As it happened death entered Baghdad that day to take the life 
of ten thousand whose time had come. Upon hearing about the carnage and how 
everyone was dying of the plague, Hassan flew to far away city of Samarkand. As 
he left Baghdad, he shivered with fright as he passed the shadow of death. Death 
who saw Hassan looked in his book and thought to himself, "I wonder what is 
going on? I am supposed to take him to the other side in four weeks in 
Samarkand. Why is he in Baghdad?
%
"You may have lost your donkey, nasruddin, but you don't have to grieve over it more than you did about the loss of your first wife." 
"Ah, but if you remember, when I lost my wife, all you villagers said: 'We'll find you someone else.' So far, nobody has offered to replace my donkey."   
%
"How old are you, mulla? someone asked, 'Three years 
older than my brother. 'How do you know that?' 'Reasoning. Last year I heard 
my brother tell someone that i was two years older than him. A year has 
passed. That means that I am older by one year. I shall soon be old enough to 
be his grandfather.'   
%
"When I was in the desert," said Nasruddin one day, "I caused an entire 
tribe of horrible and bloodthirsty bedouins to run." "However did you do it?" 
"Easy. I just ran, and they ran after me."   
%
A certain conqueror said to Nasruddin: "Mulla, all the great rulers of the 
past had honorific titles with the name of God in them: there was, for 
instance, God-Gifted, and God-Accepted, and so on. How about some such name 
for me?" "God Forbid," said Nasruddin.   
%
"May the Will of Allah be done," a pious man was saying about something or 
the other. "It always is, in any case," said Mullah Nasruddin. "How can you 
prove that, Mullah?" asked the man. "Quite simply. If it wasn't always being 
done, then surely at some time or another my will would be done, wouldn't it?" 
%
Walking one evening along a deserted road, Nasruddin saw a troop of 
horsemen rapidly approaching. His imagination started to work; he saw himself 
captured or robbed or killed and frightened by this thought he bolted, climbed 
a wall into a graveyard, and lay down in an open grave to hide. Puzzled at his 
bizzare behaviour, the horsemen - honest travellers - followed him. They found 
him stretched out, tense, and shaking. "What are you doing in that grave? We 
saw you run away. Can we help you? Why are you here in this place?" "Just 
because you can ask a question does not mean that there is a straightforward 
answer to it," said Nasruddin, who now realized what had happened. "It all 
depends upon your viewpoint. If you must know, however, I am here because of 
you - and you are here because of me!"   
%
Once, when Mullah Nasruddin was visiting a Western town, he was invited to 
attend a fashion show. He went, and afterwards he was asked how he liked it. 
"It's a complete swindle!" he exclaimed indignantly. "Whatever do you mean?" 
he was asked. "They show you the women - and then try to sell you the 
clothes!"   
%
A man was walking along the street when he passed another man with a lot 
of stubble on his face standing outside a shop. The first man asked: "How 
often do you shave? Twenty or thirty times a day," answered the man with the 
stubble. "What! You must be a freak!" exclaimed the first man. "No, I'm only a 
barber," replied the man with the stubble.   
%
Once, the people of The City invited Mulla Nasruddin to deliver a khutba. 
When he got on the minbar (pulpit), he found the audience was not very 
enthusiastic, so he asked "Do you know what I am going to say?" The audience 
replied "NO", so he announced "I have no desire to speak to people who don't 
even know what I will be talking about" and he left. The people felt 
embarrassed and called him back again the next day. This time when he asked 
the same question, the people replied "YES" So Mullah Nasruddin said, "Well, 
since you already know what I am going to say, I won't waste any more of your 
time" and he left. Now the people were really perplexed. They decided to try 
one more time and once again invited the Mullah to speak the following week. 
Once again he asked the same question - "Do you know what I am going to say?" 
Now the people were prepared and so half of them answered "YES" while the 
other half replied "NO". So Mullah Nasruddin said "The half who know what I am 
going to say, tell it to the other half" and he left!   
%
A certain man claimed to be God and was brought before the Caliph, who 
said to him, "Last year someone here claimed to be a prophet and he was put to 
death!" The man replied, "It was well that you did so, for I did not send 
him."    
%
Someone said to Ashab, "If you were to relate traditions and stop telling 
jokes, you would be doing a noble thing." "By God!" answered Ashab, "I have 
heard traditions and related them." "Then tell us", said the man. "I heard 
from Nafai," said Ashab, "on the authority of such-and-such, that the Prophet, 
may God bless him, said, "There are two qualities, such that whoever has them 
is among God's elect." "That is a fine tradition", said the man. "What are 
these two qualities?" "Nafai forgot one and I have forgotten the other," 
replied Ashab. 
%
Nasruddin was strolling to market one day when he saw a strange, dark shape appear, blocking his path. "I am Death," it said, "I have come for you." "Death?" said Nasruddin. "But I'm not even particularly old! And I have so much to do. Are you sure you aren't mistaking me for someone else?" "I only kill people who are not yet ready to die," said Death.  "I think you're wrong," replied the Hoja. "Let's make a bet." "A bet? Perhaps.  But what shall the stakes be?" "My life against a hundred pieces of silver." "Done," said Death, a bag of silver instantly appearing in his hand. "What a stupid bet you made. After all, what's to stop me from just killing you now, and thus winning automatically?" "Because I knew you were going to kill me," said Nasruddin, "that's why I made the bet." "Hmmm . . ." mused Death. "I see.  But . . . but, didn't you also know, then, that I would not be able to kill you, because of the terms of our agreement?" "Not at all," said Nasruddin, and continued down the road, clutching the bag of money.   
% 
Once, Mullah Nasruddin bought a violin. And he began to play.  NEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE.... Same note, same string, over and over. NEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE.... After a few hours his wife was at her wits' end. "Nasruddin!" she screamed. NEEE.. Nasruddin put down the bow. "Yes dear?" "Why do you play the same note? It's driving me crazy! All the real violin players move their fingers up and down, play on different strings! Why don't you play like they do?" "Well dear, I know why they go up and down and try all different strings." "Why is that?" "They're looking for *this* note." And he picked up his bow and resumed his playing.  NEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE....   
%
Mullah Nasruddin went on a pilgrimage to Mecca, and on the way he passed 
through Medina. As he was walking by the main mosque there, a rather confused 
looking tourist approached him. "Excuse me sir," said the tourist, "but you 
look like a native of these parts; can you tell me something about this 
mosque? It looks very old and important, but I've lost my guidebook." 

Nasruddin, being too proud to admit that he, too, had no idea what it was, 
immediately began an enthusiastic explanation. "This is indeed a very old and 
special mosque." he declared, "It was built by Alexander the Great to 
commemorate his conquest of Arabia." 

The tourist was suitably impressed, but presently a look of doubt crossed his face. "But how can that be?" he asked, "I'm sure that Alexander was a Greek or something, not a Muslim. . . Wasn't he?" 

"I can see that you know something of these matters." replied Nasruddin 
with chagrin, "In fact, Alexander was so impressed at his good fortune in war 
that he converted to Islam in order to show his gratitude to God." 

"Oh, wow." said the tourist, then paused. "Hey, but surely there was no such thing as Islam in Alexander's time?" 

"An excellent point! It is truly gratifying to meet a visitor who understands our history so well," answered Nasruddin. "As a matter of fact, he was so overwhelmed by the generosity God had shown him that as soon as the fighting was over he began a new religion, and became the founder of Islam." 

The tourist looked at the mosque with new respect, but before Nasruddin could quietly slip into the passing crowd, another problem occurred to him. "But wasn't the founder of Islam named Mohammed? I mean, that's what I read in a book; at least I'm sure it wasn't Alexander." 

"I can see that you are a scholar of some learning," said Nasruddin, "I was just getting to that. Alexander felt that he could properly dedicate himself to his 
new life as a prophet only by adopting a new identity. So, he gave up his old 
name and for the rest of his life called himself Mohammed." 

"Really?" wondered the tourist, "That's amazing! But...but I thought that Alexander the Great lived a long time before Mohammed? Is that right?" 

"Certainly not!" answered the Mullah, "You're thinking of a different Alexander the Great. I'm talking about the one named Mohammed."   
%
One day Nasruddin repaired tiles on the roof of his house. While Nasruddin 
was working on the roof, a stranger knocked the door. 
 - What do you want?  Nasruddin shouted out.
 - Come down, replied stranger So I can tell it. 
Nasruddin unwilling and slowly climbed down the ladder.
- Well! replied Nasruddin, what was the important thing?
- Could you give little money to this poor old man? begged stranger. 
Tired Nasruddin started to climb up the ladder and said,
- Follow me up to the roof. 
When both Nasruddin and beggar were upside, on the roof, Nasruddin said, 
- The answer is no!   
%
Nasruddin opened a booth with a sign above it: Two Questions On Any 
Subject Answered For Only 100 Silver Coins A man who had two very urgent 
questions handed over his money, saying: A hundred silver coins is rather 
expensive for two questions, isn't it? Yes, said Nasruddin, and the next 
question, please?   
%
Nasruddin used to stand in the street on market-days, to be pointed out as 
an idiot. No matter how often people offered him a large and a small coin, he 
always chose the smaller piece. One day a kindly man said to him: Nasruddin, 
you should take the bigger coin. Then you will have more money and people will 
no longer be able to make a laughing stock of you. That may be true, said 
Nasruddin, but if I always take the larger, people will stop offering me money 
to prove that I am more idiotic than they are. Then I would have no money at 
all.   
%
As Nasruddin emerged form the mosque after prayers, a beggar sitting on 
the street solicited alms. The following conversation followed: 

Are you extravagant? asked Nasruddin. 
Yes Nasruddin. replied the beggar. 
Do you like sitting around drinking coffee and smoking? asked Nasruddin. 
Yes. replied the beggar. 
I suppose you like to go to the baths everyday? asked Nasruddin. 
Yes.  replied the beggar. 
...And maybe amuse yourself, even, by drinking with friends? asked Nasruddin. 
Yes I like all those things. replied the beggar. 
Tut, Tut, said Nasruddin, and gave him a gold piece. 

A few yards farther on.  another beggar who had overheard the conversation begged for alms also. 
Are you extravagant? asked Nasruddin. 
No, Nasruddin replied second beggar. 
Do you like sitting around drinking coffee and smoking? asked Nasruddin. 
No. replied second beggar. 
I suppose you like to go to the baths everyday? asked Nasruddin. 
No. replied second beggar. 
...And maybe amuse yourself, even, by drinking with friends? asked Nasruddin. 
No, I want to only live meagerly and to pray. replied second beggar. 
Whereupon the Nasruddin gave him a small copper coin. 
But why, wailed second beggar, do you give me, an economical and pious man, a penny, when you give that extravagant fellow a sovereign? 
Ah my friend, replied Nasruddin, his needs are greater than yours.   
%
One day Nasruddin went to a banquet. As he was dressed rather shabbily, no 
one let him in. So he ran home, put on his best robe and fur coat and 
returned. Immediately, the host came over, greeted him and ushered him to the 
head of an elaborate banquet table. When the food was served, Nasruddin took 
some soup with spoon and pushed it to the his fur coat and said, Eat my fur 
coat, eat! It's obvious that you're the real guest of honor today, not me! 
%
One hot day, Nasruddin was taking it easy in the shade of a walnut tree. 
After a time, he started eying speculatively, the huge pumpkins growing on 
vines and the small walnuts growing on a majestic tree. Sometimes I just can't 
understand the ways of God! he mused. Just fancy letting tinny walnuts grow on 
so majestic a tree and huge pumpkins on the delicate vines! Just then a walnut 
snapped off and fell smack on Mullah Nasruddin's bald head. He got up at once 
and lifting up his hands and face to heavens in supplication, said: "Oh, my 
God! Forgive my questioning your ways! You are all-wise. Where would I have 
been now, if pumpkins grew on trees!   
%
At a gathering where Mullah Nasruddin was present, people were discussing 
the merits of youth and old age. They had all agreed that, a man's strength 
decreases as years go by. Mullah Nasruddin dissented. I don't agree with you 
gentlemen, he said. In my old age I have the same strength as I had in the 
prime of my youth. How do you mean, Mullah Nasruddin? asked somebody. Explain 
yourself. In my courtyard, explained Mullah Nasruddin, there is a massive 
stone. In my youth I used to try and lift it. I never succeeded. Neither can I 
lift it now.   
%
The wit and wisdom of Mullah Nasruddin never leaves him tongue-tied. One 
day an illiterate man came to Mullah Nasruddin with a letter he had received. 
"Mullah Nasruddin, please read this letter to me." Mullah Nasruddin looked at 
the letter, but could not make out a single word. So he told the man. "I am 
sorry, but I cannot read this." The man cried: "For shame, Mullah Nasruddin ! 
You must be ashamed before the turban you wear (i.e. the sign of education)" 
Mullah Nasruddin removed the turban from his own head and placed it on the 
head of the illiterate man, said: "There, now you wear the turban. If it gives 
some knowledge, read the letter yourself."   
%
One day Mullah Nasruddin lost his ring down in the basement of his house, 
where it was very dark. There being no chance of his finding it in that 
darkness, he went out on the street and started looking for it there. Somebody 
passing by stopped and enquire: "What are you looking for, Mullah Nasruddin ? 
Have you lost something?" "Yes, I've lost my ring down in the basement." "But 
Mullah Nasruddin , why don't you look for it down in the basement where you 
have lost it?" asked the man in surprise. "Don't be silly, man! How do you 
expect me to find anything in that darkness!"   
%
Mullah Nasruddin had visited a town for some personal business. It was a 
frigid winter night when he arrived. On the way to the inn a vicious looking 
dog barked at him. Mullah Nasruddin bent down to pick up a stone from the 
street to throw at the animal. He could not lift it, for the stone was frozen 
to the earth. "What a strange town this is! Mullah Nasruddin said to himself. 
They tie up the stones and let the dogs go free."   
%
One day Mullah Nasruddin went to the market and bought a fine piece of 
meat. On the way home he met a friend who gave him a special recipe for the 
meat. Mullah Nasruddin was very happy. But then, before he got home, a large 
crow stole the meat from Mullah Nasruddin's hands and flew off with it. "You 
thief!" Mullah Nasruddin angrily called after departing crow. "You have stolen 
my meat! But you won't enjoy it; I've got the recipe!"   
%
Mullah Nasruddin was dreaming that someone had counted nine gold pieces 
into his hand, but Mullah Nasruddin insisted that he would not accept less 
than ten pieces. While he was arguing with the man over one gold piece, he was 
awakened by a sudden noise in the street. Seeing that his hand was empty, 
Mullah Nasruddin quickly closed his eyes, extended his hand as if he was ready 
to receive, and said, "Very well, my friend, have it your way. Give me nine." 
%
Mullah Nasruddin was unemployed and poor but somehow he got little money 
to eat beans and pilaf at a cheap restaurant. He ate and examined walking 
people outside with the corner of the eye. He noticed a long, handsome 
swashbuckler (bully man) behind crowd. The Man was well dressed from head to 
foot, with velvet turban, silver embroidered vest, silk shirt, satin 
baggy-trousers and golden scimitar (short curved sword). Mullah Nasruddin 
pointed the man and asked restaurant keeper, "Who is that man over there!" "He 
is Fehmi Pasha's servant, answered restaurant keeper." Mullah Nasruddin sighed 
from far away, looked at the sky and said: "Oh, my Good Lord! Look at that 
Fehmi Pasha's servant and look at your own servant, here."   
%
One day a visitor came to Mullah Nasruddin with a question. "Mullah 
Nasruddin, the place that we humans come from and the place that we go to, 
what is it like?" "Oh," said Mullah Nasruddin, "it is a very frightening 
place." "Why do you say that?" the visitor asked. "Well, when we come from 
there as babies, we are crying, and when somebody has to go there, everybody 
cries."   
%
One day Mullah Nasruddin wished to learn playing zurna (a kind off shrill 
pipe) and visited a zurna player. "How much does it cost to learn playing 
zurna?" asked Mullah Nasruddin. "Three hundred akche (coin) for the first 
lesson and one hundred akche for the next lessons," asked zurna player. "It 
sounds good," replied Mullah Nasruddin. "We may start with second lesson. I 
was a shepherd when I was a young boy, so I already had some whistle 
experiences. It must be good enough for first lesson, isn't it?"   
%
Once a renowned philosopher and moralist was traveling through Nasruddin's 
village when he asked him where there was a good place to eat. He suggested a 
place and the scholar, hungry for conversation, invited Mullah Nasruddin to 
join him. Much obliged, Mullah Nasruddin accompanied the scholar to a nearby 
restaurant, where they asked the waiter about the special of the day. "Fish! 
Fresh Fish!" replied the waiter. "Bring us two," they answered. A few minutes 
later, the waiter brought out a large platter with two cooked fish on it, one 
of which was quite a bit smaller than the other. Without hesitating, Mullah 
Nasruddin cooked the larger of the fish and put in on his plate. The scholar, 
giving Mullah Nasruddin a look of intense disbelief, proceed to tell him that 
what he did was not only blatantly selfish, but that it violated the 
principles of almost every known moral, religious, and ethical system. Mullah 
Nasruddin calmly listened to the philosopher's extempore lecture patiently, 
and when he had finally exhausted his resources, Mullah Nasruddin said, "Well, 
Sir, what would you have done?" "I, being a conscientious human, would have 
taken the smaller fish for myself." "And here you are," Mullah Nasruddin said, 
and placed the smaller fish on the gentleman's plate.   
%
"Mullah! What do they do with the old full moons?" "They cut them up into 
small pieces and make the star"   
%
One day people founded Mullah Nasruddin pouring the remains of his yogurt 
into the lake. "Mullah Nasruddin , what are you doing?" A man asked. "I am 
turning the lake into yogurt," Mullah Nasruddin replied. "Can a little bit of 
yeast ferment the great river?" The man asked while others laughed at Mullah 
Nasruddin . "You never know perhaps it might," Mullah Nasruddin replied, "but 
what if it should!"   
%
"Mullah Nasruddin, which side must I walk when carrying a coffin, at the 
front, back, left or right?" "Take which you like best, so long as you are not 
inside!"   
%
One day Mullah Nasruddin was asked "Could you tell us the exact location 
of the center of the world?" "Yes, I can," replied Mullah Nasruddin . "It is 
just under the left hind of my donkey." "Well, maybe! But do you have any 
proof?" "If you doubt my word, just measure and see."   
%
A group of philosophers traveled far and wide to find, and, contemplated 
for many years, the end of the world but could not state a time for its 
coming. Finally they turned to Mullah Nasruddin and asked him: "Do you know 
when the end of the world will be?" "Of course, said Mullah Nasruddin , when I 
die, that will be the end of the world." "When you die? Are you sure?" "It 
will be for me at least," said Mullah Nasruddin .   
%
One day two small boys decided to play a trick on Mullah Nasruddin. With a 
tiny bird cupped in their hands they would ask him whether it was alive or 
dead. If he said it was alive they would crush it to show show him he was 
wrong. If he said it was dead they would let it fly away and still fool him. 
When they found the wise old man they said, "Mullah Nasruddin, that which we 
are holding, is it alive or dead?" Mullah Nasruddin thought for a moment and 
replied, "Ah, my young friends, that is in your hands!"   
%
"Mullah Nasruddin, why do you always a question with another question?" 
"Do I?"   
%
A certain man asked Mullah Nasruddin, "What is the meaning of fate, Mullah 
Nasruddin ?" "Assumptions," Mullah Nasruddin replied. "In what way?" the man 
asked again. Mullah Nasruddin looked at him and said, "You assume things are 
going to go well, and they don't - that you call bad luck. You assume things 
are going to go badly and they don't - that you call good luck. You assume 
that certain things are going to happen or not happen - and you so lack 
intuition that you don't know what is going to happen. You assume that the 
future is unknown. When you are caught out - you call that Fate.   
%
On a frigid and snowy winter day Mullah Nasruddin was having a chat with 
some of his friends in the local coffee house. Mullah Nasruddin said that cold 
weather did not bother him, and in fact, he could stay, if necessary, all 
night without any heat. 

"We'll take you up on that, Mullah Nasruddin" they said. "If you stand all night in the village square without warming yourself by any external means, each of us will treat you to a sumptuous meal. But if you fail to do so, you will treat us all to dinner." 

"All right it's a bet," Mullah Nasruddin said. 

That very night, Mullah Nasruddin stood in the village square till morning despite the bitter cold. In the morning, he ran triumphantly to his friends and told them that they should be ready to fulfill their promise. 

"But as a matter of fact you lost the bet, Mullah Nasruddin," said one of them. "At about midnight, just before I went to sleep, I saw a candle burning a window about three hundred yards away from where you were standing. That certainly means that you warmed yourself by it." 

"That's ridiculous," Mullah Nasruddin argued. "How can a candle behind a window warm a person three hundred yards away?" All his protestations were to no avail, and it was decided that Mullah Nasruddin had lost the bet. 

Mullah Nasruddin accepted the verdict and invited all of them to a dinner that night at his home. They all arrived on time, laughing and joking, anticipating the delicious meal Mullah Nasruddin was going to serve them. But dinner was not ready. Mullah Nasruddin told them that it would be ready in a short time, and left the room to prepare the meal. A long time passed, and still no dinner was served. Finally, getting impatient and very hungry, they went into the kitchen to see if there was any food cooking at all. 

What they saw, they could not believe. Mullah Nasruddin was standing by a huge cauldron, suspended from the ceiling. There was a lighted candle under the cauldron. "Be patient my friends," Mullah Nasruddin told them. "Dinner will be ready soon. You see it is cooking." 

"Are you out of your mind, Mullah Nasruddin?" they shouted. How could you with such a tiny flame boil such a large pot? 

"Your ignorance of such matters amuses me," Mullah Nasruddin said. "If the flame of a candle behind a window three hundred yards away can warm a person, surely the same flame will boil this pot which is only three inches away."   
%
One December day the village boys decided to play a trick on Mullah 
Nasruddin to fool him. They hid Mullah Nasruddin's coat when he was performing 
ablution for Friday ritual. But Mullah Nasruddin perceived that a trick on the 
way. "Mullah Nasruddin, it's a cold day, why don't you wear your coat?" asked 
one of them "I left my coat at home to keep the place warm!" answered Mullah 
Nasruddin.   
%
Nasruddin was cutting a branch off a tree in his garden one day. While he 
was sawing, a man passed by in the street and said, "Excuse me, but if 
continue to saw that branch like that, you will fall down with it." He said 
this because Nasruddin was sitting Nasruddin said nothing. He thought, "This 
is some foolish person who has no work to do but go around telling other 
people what to do and what not to do." The man continued on his way. Of 
course, after a few minutes, the branch fell and Nasruddin fell with it. "My 
God!" he cried. "That man knows the future!" He ran after him to ask how long 
he was going to live. But the man had already gone.   
%
Qazi (Judge) Nasruddin was working in his room one day when a neighbor ran 
in and said, "If one man's cow kills another's, is the owner of the first cow 
responsible?" "It depends," answered Nasruddin. "Well," said the man, "your 
cow has killed mine." "Oh," answered Nasruddin. "Everyone knows that a cow 
cannot think like a human, so a cow is not responsible, and that means that 
its owner is not responsible either." "I'm sorry, Judge," said the man. "I 
made a mistake. I meant that my cow killed yours." Judge Nasruddin thought for 
a few seconds and then said, "When I think about it more carefully, this case 
is not as easy as I thought at first." And then he turned to his clerk and 
said, "Please bring me that big black book from the shelf behind you..." 
%
Mullah Nasruddin and his wife came home one day to find the house burgled. 
Everything portable had been taken away. "It's all your fault," said his wife, 
"for you should have made sure that the house was locked before we left." The 
Neighbor took up the chant: "You did not lock the windows," said one. "Why did 
you not expect this?" said another. "The locks were faulty and you did not 
replace them," said a third. "Just a moment," said Nasruddin, "surely I am not 
the only one to blame?" "And who should we blame?" they shouted. "What about 
the thieves?" said Nasruddin. "Are they totally innocent?"   
%
That was the time Mullah Nasruddin's family was very poor. One day 
Nasruddin 's wife woke him in the middle of the night and whispered, 
"Nasruddin, There is a thief in the kitchen!" "Shhh... Stupid woman! replied 
Nasruddin. Let him be. Perhaps he find something then we seize it!"   
%
Ahmad, who was working a long way from home, wanted to send a letter to 
his wife, but he could neither read nor write. And since he was working during 
the day, he could only look for somebody to write his letter during the night. 
At last he found the ho "What does that matter?" answered Ahmad. "Well, my 
writing is so strange that only I can read it, and if I have to travel a long 
way to read your letter to your wife, it will cost you a lot of money." Ahmad 
went out of his house quickly.   
%
Nasruddin was returning home one night with one of his students when he 
saw a gang of thieves standing in front of a house, trying to break the lock. 
Nasruddin perceived that he would probably get hurt if he spoke up, so he 
decided to stay quiet and pass by quickly. But his student however, did not 
understand what was happening so he asked: "What are all those men standing 
there doing?" "Shhh!" replied Nasruddin. "They're playing music!" "But I can't 
hear anything!" "Well we shall hear the noise tomorrow!" Nasruddin said 
%
Nasruddin was awakened in the middle of the night by the cries of two 
quarreling men in front of his house. Nasruddin waited for a while but they 
continued to dispute with each other. Nasruddin couldn't sleep, wrapping his 
quilt tightly around his shoulders, he rushed outside to separate the men who 
had come to blows. But when he tried to reason with them, one of them snatched 
the quilt off his shoulders and then the both of men ran away. Nasruddin, very 
weary and perplexed, returned to his house. "What was the quarrel about?" 
wondered his wife when Nasruddin came in. "It must be our quilt," replied 
Nasruddin. "The quilt is gone, the dispute is ended."   
%
One night, three thieves of the Ut Khel tribe approached a 
peddler riding a donkey. After salaams, two of the thieves walked on either 
side of the peddler, regaling him with enchanting stooies, while the third 
walked behind, jabbing the donkey with a pointed stick to keep him moving at a 
steady pace. The two thieves then gently lifted the saddle of the weary 
peddler, while the third led away the donkey, heavily laden with bazaar goods. 
The peddler eventually fell asleep and the Ut Khel thieves lowered him to the 
ground and hastily left to join their fellow thief.   
%
A teacher (male) bought new shoes and a new watch and was 
dying to show off. In school he tried his best but his colleagues did not 
notice his new watch and shoes. He was eager to get some attention and 
congradulations, so as soon he walked in to his first class he began beating 
on the first student at his sight. Then he turned to others saying that if 
anyone else make a move, pointing to his watch and his shoes, "dar teeng 
saniya futbaletan mekunum!!!" I will kick you all in a second! The sudents 
finally notice his shoes and his watch and congratulated him. The teacher 
replyed: "khar-ha, chera az awal tab- rikee nadaden, zaroor nabood ke 
lat-te-tan kunum"; why didn't you congradulated me from the beginning, I 
wouldn't have had to beat any of you!   
%
Once the king of Afghanistan was invited to Indian (and 
Pakistan- before their independence). At the dinner table the Indian Prime 
Minister noticed that the king was chowing the chicken bones (after he had 
eaten the flesh). With a grin the PM murmmered: if the people here are eating 
the bones, what do the dogs eat? And the king answered: Daal.   
%
An angry man came in to a cafe and yelled:" IS SAIFU HERE?". No body 
answered so he yelled again: IS SAIFU HERE OR NOT? Finally a guy got up, "YAH, 
I AM SAIFU" he said, the angry man came closer and punched the guy, knocked 
him down on the floor and then left the cafe. The guy got up, cleaned his nose 
from blood and while every one was expecting a reaction from him, returned to 
his table without saying anything. Some one came and asked the guy: "How can 
you just sit here and do nothing? that man knocked you down and you are not 
even cursing him." "You wouldn't say that if you knew what I have done to him" 
said the man with a smirk. "What? How?" asked the other man with curious 
excitement. "I am not SAIFU" said the guy proudly.   
%
One day Nasruddin was taking a walk in his village, when several of his 
neighbors approached him. "Nasruddin Hoja!" they said to him, "you are so wise 
and holy! Please take us as your pupils to teach us how we should live our 
lives, and what we should do!" Nasruddin paused, then said "Alright; I will 
teach you the first lesson right now. The most important thing is to take very 
good care of your feet and sandals; you must keep them clean and neat at all 
times." The neighbors listened attentively until they glanced down at his 
feet, which were in fact quite dirty and shod in old sandals that seemed about 
to fall apart. "But Nasruddin Hoja," said one of them, "your feet are terribly 
dirty, and your sandals are a mess! How do you expect us to follow your 
teachings if you don't carry them out yourself?" "Well," replied Nasruddin, "I 
don't go around asking people how I should live my life either, do I?" 
%
One day, Nasruddin came riding into town. The people stopped him to ask, "Why are you sitting back to front on your donkey?" He replied, "I know where I am going, I want to see where I have been." 
%
One evening, Nasruddin was cooking up some things. He went to his neighbor 
and asked for a pot and promised to return it the next day. A knock, knock 
came on the neighbor's door the next day. Nasruddin had come to return the 
pot. The neighbor looks at his pot and inside was one smaller. The neighbors 
said, "There is a small pot inside the one I loaned you." Nasruddin told him, 
"The pot gave birth." The neighbor was quite pleased to hear this and accepted 
the two pots. The very next morning, Nasruddin knocks on the neighbor's door 
to borrow a larger pot than the previous one. The neighbor happily abides his 
the request. A week goes past, without Nasruddin knocking to return the pot. 
The neighbor and Nasrudding bump into each other at the bazaar a few days 
latter. Nasruddin's neighbor asked, "Where is my pot?" "It's dead," says 
Nasruddin. "But how can that be?" queries the neighbor. Nasruddin points out, 
"If a pot can give birth, then a pot can also die." 
%
One afternoon, Nasruddin and his friend were sitting in a cafe, drinking tea, and talking about life and love. `How come you never got married, Nasruddin?' asked his friend at one point. `Well,' said Nasruddin, `to tell you the truth, I spent my youth looking for the perfect woman. In Cairo, I met a beautiful and intelligent woman, with eyes like dark olives, but she was unkind. Then in Baghdad, I met a woman who was a wonderful and generous soul, but we had no interests in common. One woman after another would seem just right, but there would aways be something missing. Then one day, I met her. She was beautiful, intelligent, generous and kind. We had everything in common. In fact she was perfect.' `Well,' said Nasruddin's friend, `what happened? Why didn't you marry her?  Nasruddin sipped his tea reflectively. `Well,' he replied, `it's a sad thing.  Seems she was looking for the perfect man.' 
%
Once upon a time, Nasruddin went to the marketplace and put up a sign that read: "Whoever has stolen my donkey, please return it to me and I will give it to them." "Nasruddin!", exclaimed the townspeople, "Why would you put up such a sign?" "There are two great gifts in life," replied Nasruddin. "One is to find something that you've lost and the other is to give something that you love away."   
%
Mullah Nasruddin had a beautiful daughter, the desire of all the evil eyes of the men lived in his village. Everyone sought the hand of the fair maiden, but Mullah Nasruddin protected her from the ouside world, saving her for the wealthy young khan who lived just outside the village. At last the young Khan came to ask for the hand of the beautiful maiden. Mullah Nasruddin drove a hard bargain and was to receive the highest bride-price ever bargained for in the entir region. With the usual Muslim regard for ceremony, Mullah Nasruddin insisted on a long waiting-period before the wedding vows could be taken. 

It seems that the young and beautiful daughter of Mullah Nasrudin had a mind and a body of her own.  She fell in love with a young stalwart ne'er-do-well in the village, who constantly showered her with attention as she went to the nearby well to gather water in the morning and at dusk. Her trips to get water began to take longer periods of time. Most people in the village know what was happening, but no one dared tell Mullah Nasruddin. The time for the wedding approached and the young, wealthy Khan came to collect his bride. Mullah Nasruddin brought her to greet her betrothod. 

Lo and behold! She was well pregnant by this time. The young, rich Khan was horrified, and turned on the Mullah Nasrudding, demanding to know why such a thing had occurred. And when Mullah Nasruddin merely replied that such things are normal when people get married, the young, rich Khan stormed out of Mullah Nasruddin's compound, and said that he withdrew his offer of marriage to the young beautiful daughter of Mullah Nasruddin and therefore would expect a return on the down payment on the bride price. Mullah Nasrudding, genuinely shocked, called after the young, rich Khan and the young Khan retured. 

"Let us be sensible about this," pleaded Mullah Nasruddin. "Actually, I should double the bride price now that my daughter is truly pregnant and can give you a son." 

The young Khan, even more horrified, stuttered and asked, "In the name of Allah, why?" 

Mullah Masruddin calmly replied, "Why just last week I delivered a cow to a man to whom I had sold the cow several months before. In the interim period, the cow becamme pregnant, and when I delivered the cow, I demanded and received twice the original amount.  Now what is so different between a cow and a daughter?"   
%
Nasruddin heard that there was a banguet being held in the nearby town, and that everyone was invited. He made his way there as quickly as he could. When the Master of Ceremonies saw him in his ragged cloak, he seated him in the most inconspicuous place, far from the great table where the most important people were waiting on hand and foot. Nasruddin saw that it would be an hour at last before the waiters reached where he was sitting. So he got up and went home. He dressed himself in a magnificent sable cloak and turban and returned to feast. As soon as the heralds of the Emir, his host, saw this splendid sight they started to beat the drum of welcome and sound the trumpets in amenner befitting a visitor of high rank. The Chamberlain came out of the palace himself, and conducted the magnificent Nasruddin to a place almost next to the Emir. A dish of wonderful food was immediatly placed before him. Without a pause, Nasruddin began to rub handfuls of it into his turban and cloak. "Your Eminence," said the prince, "I am curious as to your eating habits, which are new to me." "Nothing special," said Nasruddin; "the cloak get me in here and got me the food. Surely it deserves it portion." 
%
'Language,' said Mulla Nasrudin, 'was devised to describe actions as well as thoughts. That means that all you have to do is to get the words right, and everything will be understood.' 

'But Mulla,' said a friend, 'surely that cannot apply to everything?' 

'Yes, it should.' 

'Then can you describe to me how the silk industry is carried out?' 

'Certainly. The first part is to get the worms and untwist that which is twisted. The second part is to get rid of the worms and retwist that which has been untwisted.'
%
